hi this is art with cyclocross wheels
org and today we're talking about the
Easton EC 90s L tubular cyclocross wheel
Easton actually doesn't make a specific
cyclocross wheel because I've talked to
rap some people that work there and they
say that their wheels are strong enough
as is that they don't need to make a
specific cyclocross wheel and I'd have
to say I have to agree with that I'm
about 190 pounds and I'm not a light guy
and I've written these now for a full
cyclocross season and also a very full
road season and I've had no issues
what's the weather ever with durability
they're still perfectly true haven't
broken any spokes just been a very very
nice wheel bearings on these wheels are
extremely smooth they use a grade three
ceramic bearing both on the front and
the rear if you could feel this this
bearing is as smooth as the day I took
these out of the box so very happy with
the bearings are a very fast wheel it's
a 38 millimeter deep rims so it's not as
deep as say the ec 90 arrow which you
can see on my cross bike here which is
actually set up as my road bike that
comes in at 58 so it's a good compromise
makes it a good all-around wheel it's
very stable in crosswinds doesn't have a
lot of surface area but it is deep
enough that you can race it in a muddy
cross race and it's not going to be
binding in the mud it's going to slice
right through that stuff
going to the front wheel here got a
radial spoke patter and 18 spokes on the
front radially laced I should also
mention on the rear its radial on the
non-drive side and one cross on the
drive side and they go with 24 spokes
they're so super solid wheels again you
know I'm a big guy have not tweaked
these wheels at all I think this is
probably one of the better choices you
could make for a wheel that you're going
to get a lot of mileage out of both in
terms of being a little race cyclocross
and also a racing road they accelerate
extremely quick they're a very light
wheel twelve hundred and thirty two
grams for the pair so they climb
extremely well I'm not exactly a climber
at 190 pounds but I can definitely
notice when I get on the climbs with
these these wheels that they they do
want to go on the flats and like even a
Time Trial these wheels are very fast
once they get up to speed and they do
get up to speed very quickly due to the
light weight they're very stable they
are quite Aero and I've had I've done
probably 90% of my road races this
summer on these wheels and just using
the arrows on time trials and super flat
road races for the Hillier rolling
terrain this is my go-to wheel again
this is the one I race race the most so
getting a lot of bang for the buck with
these wheels braking surface I'm very
happy with talked with some of the guys
on my team that run the Easton's as well
and we kind of all agree that the
braking service on the Easton's seems to
be much nicer and smoother than some of
the other wheels that we've tried I run
the Swiss stop brake pads which actually
come with these wheels and in my
experience they've been very reliable
even in the wet very consistent smooth
braking surface for the cross seas and
I'll go over these with acetone and get
that
get whatever residue is on there off and
I'll put on some new brake pads so that
I'm you know not taking any chances
night we're using Warren equipment
because it's all about cyclocross they
just do road to keep in shape and get
ready for cross so when fall comes
around my heart rate gets up and I'm
ready to roll so anyway there you have
it Easton ec9 TSL wheels if you're
looking to buy these if they don't have
them at your local shop I highly
recommend real cyclists calm
actually these are 20% off right now and
free shipping if you order them they
ship extremely quickly and you'll get
them very quickly and you'll be very
happy when you get them so thanks for
tuning in and have a great day